Data was generated by molecular dynamics using LAMMPS (Large-scale Atomic/Molecular Massively Parallel Simulator), run on QUEST. All units are given in dimensionless (Leonard-Jones) units (see https://docs.lammps.org/units.html for more details). The raw simulation data itself is not provided, since it is fairly large, but the files to generate the data are provided.

**Simulation Box**
100 simulations were run, each in a box with dimensions (Lx, Ly, Lz) = (20, 20, 30) ion diameters and periodic boundary conditions in all directions. The box represents a the junction of the two halves of a polymer dioide, with the junction being an xy plane at z=0 (the middle of the box). The top half of the box has 1500 fixed anions, representing the polyanion matrix and the bottom half has 1500 fixed cations representing the polycation matrix. There are also 1500 mobile anions and 1500 mobile cations. All the ions are monovalent. The mobile cations start in the half of the box with fixed anions and the mobile anions start in the half of the box with fixed cations. The positions of the particles were randomly picked one by one from a uniform distribution, with a position being picked if there is overlap, but the same distribution was used for every simulation. The relative dielectric constant everywhere in the simulation box is 60.

**Forces**
The conservative forces in this simulation are electrostatic interaction between charges, calculated with the Particle-Particle Particle-Mesh Ewald method, an applied electric field in the z direction, and hard core repulsion, represented by a Weeks-Chandler-Anderson potential with $\varepsilon_{WCA}=T$, where $T$ is the temperature in LJ units, and $\sigma=1$ ion diameter.

**Relaxation**
To avoid forces that are too high causing the simulation to explode, the positions of the mobile ions are relaxed for 1000 steps to minimize energy, before the external electric field is applied. Position data from thes steps is not recorded or used for this project.

**Time Evolution**
After relaxation, the electric field is applied (it's strength varies over time), the system is evolved with Langevin dynamics in the NVT ensemble for 40000 timesteps of $0.05\tau$, where $\tau=\sqrt{m \sigma^2/\epsilon}$, where $m$ is ion mass, $\sigma$ is ion diameter, and $\epsilon=e^2/4\pi\varepsilon_0\sigma$ is the energy scale ($T=\varepsilon/80$). Langevin dynamics means there is a damping force and a random force, which represent, respectively, drag from bumping into the polymer matrix, and being bumped by random thermal fluctuations in the polymer matrix, and they keep the simulation temperature constant. Position and velocity data for all the particles is collected every 50 timesteps, for a total of 801 frames, which we will denote by $t_f \in [0, 800]$.

**Electric field**
The externally applied time varying electric field is determined at the beginning of each simulation by selecting eight uniformly distributed random numbers $a_i$ from -1 to 1, which then form the electric field:

$E_z = a_2\cos(2\pi \cdot 10a_1 \tilde{t}) + a_4\sin(2\pi \cdot 10a_3 \tilde{t}) + a_5 + a_6\tilde{t} + a_7\tilde{t}^2 + a_8\tilde{t}^2$

$\tilde{t}=t_f/400 -1$ is a transformed time, which is convenient for generating the applied electric field and for the neural network to use for learning.

**Current Calculation**
A normalized current in the z direction is calculated post simulation at each frame as:

$I_z=(1/N_\text{mobile ions})\sum_i^{N_\text{mobile ions}} q^{(i)} v^{(i)}_z/L_z$

Processing the raw data from the simulations, including this calculation is done in RawDiodeDataProcessing.ipynb. This file creates a csv file with the current at every timestep in all the simulation and an analogous one for the electric field. Since the current data is noisy, I also smoothed the data with `scipy.interpolate.make_smoothing_spline` with `lam=None`, however, I ended up using the noisy data for the analysis, since the smoothing didn't make a noticeable difference in how well the network was able to learn the data.
